---
layout: default
title: Updates
nav: updates
---

<div class="updates">

  <h2 class="updates-title">Trail Updates</h2>

<div class="update-card">
<div class="update-card">

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 25,2026</div1
    <div class="update-text">
I'm currently at mile 1196 in Sierra City - next updates on 6/29 in Belden.  the tracker seems broken and photos are taking a while to update.
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 25,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Well i made it to mile 1196 and the little town of Sierra City.  this town shuts down at 5pm and there are no restaurants or services.  Theres like 10 people sitting outside just sucking up wifi.  These small towns are totally bizarre to me because theres like 10 people that operate the whole place.  On the good news front, a bear can is no longer required for camping in the woods from here on out, so i dropped 2 pounds of gear that I just strapped to the top of my pack in an akward way.  my pack is now lighter and easier to manage!  on the bad news front, i saw another bear today, but he heard me and just bolted through the woods before I could get my camera out.  i guess I'll have to hang my food to make sure the bears don't get my food?!? Today I went below 5000 feet of elevation for the first time since I started the Sierra section about 500 miles ago.  it's hotter the lower I go, and the whole forest changed.  I see redwoods and ferns all the time.  The mountains look like they were old volcanoes rather than granite mountains. it's cool being in a new Biome and feeling like I've gone somewhere else and having the intensity of the Sierra's behind me.  I'm looking forward to Norcal and more of these strangle little towns.  I'm staying in the Sierra City hotel, where two 15 year old gorls negotiated the price with me.  i'm the only one staying in this building that dates back tonthe 1800's.  the girls gave me access to the laundry room and the whole building basically.  i just wish there were 10 more people staying here to keep me company.  Tommorrow I start the day with a huge 3000 foot climb and in 4 days the woods have so many "blowdowns - basically trees that fell down" that you can't find the trail.  Oh and rain is scheduled over the next 3 days...the fun never ends!!
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 24,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Ever since I returned to the trail at the end of May, i’ve been “Raw-dogging” the miles.  That means no podcasts, no music, no iPhone entertainment to occupy my mind.  Just me and my thoughts all day.  The reason I’m doing it that way is because although theres a massive physical part to this trail, the mental part is the hardest.  Most people quit mentally before they do physically.  Hiking day in and day out is a long way to watch the sun go around the earth, and after a while the forest kinda looks the same, the views are still amazing, and it is amazing to look up and be locked in nature.  But you can’t shut your brain off.  My mind has worked overtime on some days to try and get me to quit hiking.  I’ve spent a full day just thinking of all the things i regret in life, for some weird reason…i didn’t mean to i just woke up and i was extra regretful that day.  I spend an inordinate amount of time thinking about my kids and all the things i should have done different when i had them in my life every day.  I spend time thinking about the future, and I had a long daydream about going to Disneyland for like 4 days and being trapped around tons of people and that whole artificial world.  For some reason it sounds like a wonderful vacation right now.  After i’m done with this hike, I may go to Disneyland for my next vacation.  I also spend a ton of time thinking about how many miles a day in a row i have to do to finish this hike.  I do little calculations all day about mileage and how to maximize my hiking so i get to towns quicker, or shave days off my itinerary.  I spend 12 hours a day hiking or resting and about 99% of that time is alone.  Thats a ton of time to just be alone with your own thoughts.  I’ve figured out im my own worst enemy, and that my mind sometimes has its own intentions which don’t include hiking the PCT all summer. I’ve also figured out that I am bigger than all the myriad thoughts I have, and that reality is very different from what I think is happening quite often.  I also figured out that I will overcome my internal doubts and fears, and that I will finish this hike, even though my brain may just want to go to Disneyland.  
I walked 26 miles today with 4500 feet of elevation gain, so I was able to overcome the 22 mile barrier.  I did eat a ton of food, but the big key was when i started slowing down and hitting a wall, i stopped and rested for about 20 minutes.  It changed everything and after resting i was able to come back stronger and walk faster…who knew more breaks meant more miles!
    </div>
  </div>
  
<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 21,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
So it’s Fathers day, Sunday June 21st.  It also happens to be the summer solstice.  Or the longest day of the year.  I’m camped in a deep valley so the sun has set but it’s still very light out.  Technically it means theres more daylight hours for hiking, but I can’t seem to go beyond 6:30pm without walking like an invalid.  I’ve tried just gorging myself on calories and i just get full and hit the wall anyway.  It’s hard for me to push beyond 22-23 miles, but I’m still at elevation and I’m still doing big climbs each day too, so hopefully the trail levels out a bit so i can do more mileage.  If I can’t do more miles, i’ll have to find a way to maximize each day so i can finish this trail this year.  Theres a few times fences i’m aiming for.  First is September 15th.  After that date you will be dealing with horrible weather in Northern Washington.  Having been through a 2 day snowstorm my gear is not cut out for snow/sleet or cold rains for long periods of time.  My company has extended my leave through September 1st, so I’d also like to beat that date if anyway possible.  All of those September dates are looming large now, and the Solstice is my reminder that I am on the clock.  It’s officially summer, and I need to cover some ground to complete this trail this year.  I’m at mile 1109 right now, not even half way, and I have a little over 2 months left to get it done.  I’ve been hiking for 2.5 months, so I need to maximize each day, and get my miles in when I can.  Many people who do finish the trail end up doing 25-30 mile days, but I can’t seem to get to those distances…maybe because I’m still in the Sierra’s?  Not sure, but I’m going to spend some time trying to figure it out.
    </div>
  </div>


<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 19,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Theres this hippy saying on the PCT - “the trail provides”.  The idea is the very thing you need suddenly shows up when you need it the most.  I don’t really believe it, but yesterday I was feeling so lonely, and today, man there were a lot of people to talk with.  First off at 8:30am i walked across a dirt road and there was a blue sign with a Hot Dog on it snd the words “Trail magic”.  Some guy named “Post Master” who had hiked the PCT 4 years ago set up trail magic in the remote boondocks off a dirt road.  He made me the best breakfast hamburger I’ve ever had.  It made me so happy to have someone to talk to, and the extra food was so good.  I still ate everything else I had for myself today, as well as a full hamburger, chips and 2 cokes.  I also met a hiker named Monte there who I chatted with for a bit.  He was doing 28 mile days, so I’ll likely never see him again, and then i saw about 30 day hikers as i’m hitting Carson pass and some of the other highways across the Sierra’s.  It was just what i needed - to be around people again, so maybe the trail does provide and I’m the idiot for not believing it.  Either way this was a good day of hiking.  22.5 miles and 4000 feet of elevation gain as well.
    </div>
  </div>


<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 18,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
The last few days have been bizarre, the 4 days from Yosemite, and the last 2 days i barely saw anyone while I was out on the trail.  To be so alone left me kind of talking to myself.  I thought this section would be just as remote as the last one, and i wouldn’t see anyone for a few days….but then out of nowhere i saw a few dayhikers?!?!  I was shocked because I thought it would be days before we crossed a highway, but Ebbets pass was only a few miles away which is a road that drives across the mountains.  One of the day hikers asked me how my journey has been, and i kind of choked up a bit as i tried to explain the beauty of the PCT.  I was so happy to talk to someone again when i thought it would be another lonely day on the trail.  They must of thought I was loosing my mind, and maybe I was a little bit.  It made me realize how important having other people around is to me.  I also seem to have a little PTSD from the bear coming into my camp at night.  I woke up last night listening for broken twigs and expecting another bear to be around, but of course it was just my mind playing tricks on me.  On one hand I love hiking alone, setting my own pace and little daily goals, on the other hand I miss talking with people.  I’m not sure where all the PCT hikers have gone, but I appear to be in a bubble where it’s just me and everyone is kind of walking the same pace, so no one passes each other during the day.  I hope I catch up to someone friendly soon.
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 16,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
So I made it to Kennedy Meadows North which is where everyone ships their axe and spikes home, but I almost needed both today.  I fully thought Donahue pass would close out the High Sierra’s but the PCT saved the best for last.  Sonora pass was not on my radar for amazing views or sketchy traverses because it’s just under 11000 feet high, but once you climb to elevation you end up weaving your way between some huge peaks along the ridge and there was still snow in a lot of places that had to be traversed and a few of the traverses were super scary - if you slip , you are going down a steep mountain to crash into granite rocks.  Unlike other passes where you only see the mountains immediately around you, on this pass you can see in any direction for miles and see mountains probably 100 miles away.  The views were out of this world, and after 6 straight nights dealing with thunder /lightning, bears, mosquitoes and all the pain of lugging heavy gear, it made me realize why I love doing this hike.  The Sierra’s are the most beautiful mountains on earth, and seeing places you can only get to by hiking there is so rewarding.  I hadn’t seen anyone for over a day and when you realize you are alone on top of these wild mountains in the back country, it may as well be the 1800’s, and the same experience that John Muir felt when he first saw these views.  When I finally crested the last peak today, I held my hiking poles up to the sky and yelled “Yeahhhh” as loud as I could. I did the same thing on Forester pass 3 weeks ago when I summitted that pass because I knew I could conquer the Sierra’s when I got up that first pass.  This was like a bookend because it felt like I went through so much in the High Sierra’s.  I was scared half to death by bears and the scale of the mountains.  To make it through alive, healthy and in one peice, and to have done it alone, i was absolutely feeling alive and like I had done something significant. The Sierra’s continue, but I won’t go above 10,000 feet again, and i won’t need mountaineering equipment when i do climb again.  Can’t wait to see how the Tahoe area and Norcal compare to what I’ve seen already.
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 15,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
 I have entered the Mosquito apocalypse.  Summer is here in the Sierra’s it’s warm again, and that means time for mosquitoes.  Not just a couple thousand mosquitoes, not just a couple million mosquitoes, nope - the Sierra’s need a couple Billion of them.  I killed easily 3000 mosquitoes today.  They are everywhere and as i walk by a cloud of them follows me.  I’m being bitten every second, through my clothes and on every exposed peice of skin.  My new favorite piece of gear is my headnet because it keeps them out of my mouth, nose and ears.  The only really exposed skin i have is my knees and my hands.  I could wear gloves but it’s just too hot.  Every 10 steps i swat my calfs(which have compression sleeves on them) and kill about 20 mosquitoes with every slap.  They can still bite through my socks and compression sleeves, so they all congregate on my calfs for some reason.  It looks like i have really long hair on my calfs sometimes but it’s just 20-50 mosquitoes all feasting on me at the same time.  As soon as i smack and kill them another 20 jump right in happy to take the dead ones spot.  My calfs and legs are basically one massive mosquito bite, and when i start scratching my legs i can’t stop - it’s like I got poison Oak or something.  When i stop to filter water, take a leak or eat something i get absolutely swarmed.  Literally hundreds of mosquitoes come zooming in the minute i stop moving and attack.  I’ll be getting some deet/off at my next town stop because i’m getting overwhelmed by these annoying bugs.  I guess theres nothing else in the forest for them to get blood from except the occasional hiker, but why the heck are there so many???
    </div>
  </div>

  
<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 14,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Last night i had the scariest encounter on the PCT.  I had just fallen asleep when i heard footsteps outside my tent.  I thought, cool - some new hikers coming to camp next to me, they’ll help me scare the bears away if one should come by….but wait…it’s dark and theres no headlamps on, and the footsteps are kind of close to my tent….i immediately got a surge of adrenaline  and realized something big was just outside my tent and it wasn’t a person.  I opened my tent up quick and started yelling, “Get out of here!” As loud as i could.  I stood up outside my tent and heard a huge animal scramble into the woods next to me.  I quickly grabbed my headlamp and turned it on to see what was there but all i saw was the woods.  I screamed again, get out of here!” And this time off to the left a little bit I heard a loud groan…it was clearly a bear, but I couldn’t see how big it was, it groaned again as if to say, “I’m leaving but not because of you.  If you had anything worthwhile I’d just take it!” And i slowly heard it walk away through the woods.  My heart was racing, and adrenaline was pumping.  I had my ice axe in case it charged me, but luckily it just went away.  I quickly recounted what happened and it must have been about 2-3 feet from my tent when i first heard him.  I even remembered smelling like a wet dog smell just before I jumped up.  It took me over an hour to fall back to sleep again, as i listened for any footsteps or broken twigs to tip me off about his return.  Those two groans stuck with me because it was clearly a very large animal from the sounds it made in response to me yelling, and it was more annoyed with me than scared of me.  If I was on the menu for that bear, i think i’d be done already.  I’m just glad they don’t really mess with humans.

So it’s only 4:30, but i’m sitting in my tent just waiting for the rain to start.  There are thunderclouds overhead and Thunder is ringing out every 5 minutes, but i’m frustrated that it’s not raining.  I only did 18 miles today, and was hell bent on doing 21 at least.  21 would have set me up to get into Kennedy Meadows a day earlier than expected and help shave another day on my itinerary.  I need some extra days so I can take a few zero days in town over the next few months.  If i pushed the extra 3 miles though I would have to go over Seavey pass which is a fully Granite pass, and in a thunderstorm it’s not a good idea.  I know i’m making the right call to stop here but man it’s frustrating to be so close to my goal and have the energy to do it., but be stopped because of a weather hazard.  These thunderstorms appear in the Sierra’s when it gets hot during the day and the hot air rises and brings moisture.  If you want a hot day you get thunderstorms…it’s never just perfect conditions.  Speaking of not perfect - the mosquitoes have come out in force.  I keep beathing them into my mouth which usually makes me gag.  I have so many mosquito bites on me it’s ridiculous.  Sometimes when i smack my calf i kill like 10 at a time because they congregate on my calfs as i’m walking.  
    </div>
  </div>
  
<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 13,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
I know I spoke about the importance of candy on this trail, but today the appreciation reached new highs…not just for candy, but for sheer calories.  Every day i’ve been hiking I force myself to eat as I hike.  This is especially hard at high elevation because it’s really hard to breathe, so you have to choose, eat or breathe.  Today I went into the disaster zone known as Yosemite - with all their messed up rules and regulations- no camping for hikers in Yosemite - so you have to dash in 4 miles, buy your resupply and then leave to camp again, because they closed the hikers campground.  I have been struggling in the afternoons to keep walking and do more miles and my speed has been so slow (about 2 miles an hour).  I’ve just been totally exhausted…and I’ve been losing weight pretty drastically.  Well today I bought my resupply in a hurry at Yosemite, and I shopped while I was hungry.  I bought way too much food, and my pack weighed a ton as I left.  So I decided to just try and eat my way to a lighter pack.  This is after I ate my normal trail breakfast, and then had the breakfast at the cafe at Yosemite too.  I was craving soda at 10:30am so I drank 2x 20oz cups of Fanta soda with no ice because the ice machine wasn’tworking. I ate a full lunch, and then feasted on a few of the heaviest bars I had, plus took down a few extra candy bars that I overbought, and I ate about 1/2 a pound of trail mix.  The net result was, suddenly I had energy again in the afternoon- like I could hike faster than 2.5 miles an hour, and didn’t hit a wall like I normally do.  It was bizarre and obvious once I started to put things together.  The more calories I consumed the more I could hike all day.  It reminded me of this one ultra-light, super fast hiker I met in Bishop a week ago.  He told me about a new strategy he was trying to go 30-50 miles a day.  He has to eat a “Family sized” bag of M&M’s every day, plus his normal breakfast, lunch and dinner.  It’s an insane amount of calories, but when you are going that far, you need more calories!!!  I forced myself to eat about 1500 calories for dinner tonight as well.  I thought I’d never get that much food down, which is way more than I normally eat at home, but surprisingly my body just accepted it without getting “full”.  I have to climb 5000 feet of elevation over the 20 miles I plan to hike tomorrow.  Normally that would kill me and be a long difficult day.  My legs and feet can do it, but usually my energy just depletes after about 4000 feet.  I’ll see if my new “force feeding calories” solution does the trick.  If not I have to pack back on some weight as I lost over 30 pounds since i started this hike anyway.  
    </div>
  </div>
  
<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 12,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
  I successfully cleared Donahue pass today which is cool because having tried to hike sections in Yosemite a Donahue pass permit is hard to come by.  I assumed there would be a lot of hikers because the permits tend to be in high demand, but i only saw a few John Muir Trail or Yosemite hikers today.  Not sure why the permit is so hard to get if no one is actually hiking the trail.  Yosemite is a conundrum - it is far and away one of the most beautiful places on earth, but they have so many rules and restrictions that this place is awful to visit.  I need to go to Tuolomne Meadows to get my food resupply, but they won’t let you camp anywhere within 4 miles to the south or 10 miles to the North of them.  They have a store with all the stuff you need, but you basically have to time it where you run in grab what you need and then get immediately back on the trail, because theres no place to sleep near them.  Easily one of the worst resupply stops ever, and this park is supposed to encourage backpacking??  The other crazy thing about being in Yosemite is that i know I’m now in my “backyard”.  I’ve basically walked from Mexico all the way to my home (or parallel to it).  I could call someone at home to come get me and be back in San Jose in like 3 hours probably.

I ran into a fellow PCT’er and a fellow solo hiker today.  He wanted to quit, but didn’t know how.  He said he just wasn’t feeling it for the last week or so.  I was honestly befuddled- if the high Sierra’s isn’t interesting to you then nothing on this trail is gonna grab your attention.  The crazy part is I knew what he was feeling.  Hiking the PCT is kind of like eating pizza every day if you really like pizza.  After a while no matter how beautiful the scenery is your gonna want something else.  Waking up early pushing yourself to hike big miles, eating freeze dried meals or backpacker food every day wears on you.  Also staying above 10,000 feet for 2 weeks straight does take a toll on you.  I feel like no matter how much I eat im still starving myself, and I’m honestly not even that hungry.  I told this dude to just stick with it for another week.  We’ll get rid of all our mountaineering gear, and start moving to lower elevation where we can recover a bit.  I’m still enjoying my time out here in the back country, but I’m also hitting a bit of a wall, just like that dude.  I keep reminding myself how lucky i am to be here and the privilege i have to do this right now.  I’m not close to quitting but I’d be lying if I said the thought hadn’t entered my mind.  That other hiker i spoke with probably was gonna go home soon, which was crazy because he was in way better shape tham me and was a way better hiker than me.  The mental aspect of doing this is by far the hardest part.  
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 11,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
 So i’ve made it to mile 920 which is about 20 miles outside of Yosemite park.  You can’t camp in Yosemite which means i need to hike less tommorrow and camp 4 miles outside Yosemite then run in the next day, resupply and get out of there so i’m not camping on their grounds…so stupid - they route the PCT through yosemite, let you buy food there but won’t let you camp there.  Either way tommorrow ends the “High Sierra” section of the PCT with me crossing over Donahue Pass.  It’ll be great to enjoy one more snowy pass and then ship my ice axe and microspikes home.  The High Sierra has been such an adventure and was truly exciting and beautiful beyond words.  The John Muir trail and the PCT will seperate tomorrow and the John Muir trail will run 21 more miles into Yosemite Valley while the PCT exits Toulomne Meadows and heads towards Lake Tahoe.  John Muir knew what he was doing when he made this trail, and it’s still as exceptional as when he created it.  It’s about 200 miles of the most rural and beautiful part of the country and you have to earn every view of it.  Another weird feeling is I’m camping at 9600 feet in elevation but it’s actually a little warm.  I doubt it’ll freeze tonight and i barely need my quilt to stay warm.  I’ll have to figure out how to sleep in warmer weather without sweating all night.   
    </div>
  </div>


<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 6,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Another cool thing about the Sierra’s is the water crossings.  There are endless rivers, creeks and streams coming down the mountains so you eventually have to cross them.  And then 10 minutes later another one, then 2 hours later another one.  One strategy is to take all your footwear off, change into the crocs i have as camp shoes, cross, then towel off and put back on my hiking shoes.  This takes about 15-20 minutes per river. And no one has tome for that. So another strategy is to search out a fallen tree, or a nice series of rocks you can jump over that crosses the river and balance yourself across…this will have you walking upstream for 15-20 minutes in search of the perfectly fallen tree/rocks, which likely doesn’t exist and then you have to cross at an imperfect spot anyway…and no one has time for all that either.  So option 3 which everyone eventually gets to anyway, is you just walk across the river in your shoes and socks because they’re probably a little wet from walking on the snow from the high pass earlier anyways, so who cares if they get wet again.  Then you go to sleep at 11000 feet and your wet shoes and socks freeze overnight.  It makes cold mornings even colder putting wet frozen socks and shoes on.  But don’t worry - in 1 hour you’ll either be walking on slushy snow or crossing another river getting them freshly wet again.  Today I had a big choice to make - 1) follow the PCT and cross Evolution Creek(more like a gushing river), it can often be higher than waist deep…or 2) take an alternate path through a meadow where the water is less deep.  I didn’t come all the way up into the Sierra’s to take safe alternates, so I chose adventure through the deep water.  I unbuckled my waist belt and chest strap, in case the water swept me away, and waded towards the middle of the river- it was flowing fast and when you step, where you think your foot is gonna go, is actually about 2 steps away because the river is moving you downstream faster than you can put your foot down.  You just gotta go with it and realize you are not gonna walk straight across - you are walking downstream at a diagonal and the quicker you get across the less downstream you go.  Before I realized it I was waist deep in water but fully committed to crossing.  Luckily it didn’t get any deeper than that and I made it across the deepest river (actually just a creek) successfully.  It could have been much worse, but then again everything could always go much worse.
    
    </div>
  </div>


<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 5,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
It’s been an eventful 4 days in the High Sierra.  This southern part of the Sierra’s is the heart of the PCT.  It has all the high passes over 10,000 feet, as well as Mt Whitney.  By the time you get to where I am, at mile 860 I won’t have to go over 12000 feet again for the rest of the trail.  After the next 100 miles I’ll barely be over 10,000 feet again.  Theres just 3 more “big passes” Seldon at 10,913 (tomorrow), Silver at 10778(in 2 days), and then the last big pass is Donahoe Pass at 11000 feet near Yosemite at mile 930, and that will close out the “High Sierra”.  Since Wednesday when I got back on trail I crossed Kearsarge pass at 11200 feet, the Glen Pass at 11957, the next day I did Pinchot pass at 12,127, then Mather Pass at 12094, and today I crossed Muir Pass at 11970.  Each one was eventful in their own way, and when your up above 10000 feet it’s hard to breathe, and you are dealing with ice and snow that is hard to navigate.  I definitely needed the ice axe and microspikes to get over these tall passes.  Yesterday when descending Mather Pass, the second most notorious of these passes, the popular way down was to Glacade(basically slide on your butt). Sadly I climbed this pass at 6 in the morning meaning everything was frozen solid.  As i started to glacade, I immediately picked up way too much speed in the ice and was quickly barreling down the steep hill at speeds where I could hurt myself, and I was still at the top of the mountain.  I had to self arrest and quick otherwise any bump and I’d start rolling with all my gear(not safe and not good!!!).  I had my ice axe next to my hip in glacade position to slow my speed, but when i dug it in it just jerked my whole body sideways, and next thing you know i was on my side totally out of control and picking up more speed.  I panicked and swung the ice axe as hard as i could into the mountain over my head.  The axe blade caught the ice, and immediately was pulled from my hand, but I had a wrist strap on, which pulled my arm and slowed me almost instantly.  You are not supposed to do this, as I found out, because you can dislocate your arm, which I probably wasn’t too far off from doing.  Luckily the ice was a little forgiving that day and the blade kind of cut through it rather than just stopping fully.  I then remembered you are supposed to roll onto the axe with your whole body so it doesn’t rip your arm off.    Sometimes you get lucky when learning new skills is all I can say.  After i stopped(self arrested) i was still laying on the side of a steep slope, so instead of sliding down i got back on my feet (and microspikes) and slowly kicked steps down the mountain.  It took forever, but was way safer than just letting momentum carry me.
    
    </div>
  </div>



<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">June 4,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Normally as you hike along you have to watch where you’ll put your feet for the next step.  Especially when theres a lot of big rocks on the ground or water flowing etc.  then every once in a while you look up and are reminded of where you are.  It’s spectacular view after spectacular view when you avert your eyes from the 6 feet in front of you.  Today something caught my eye and I glanced up and stopped dead in my tracks.  About 50 yards in front of me, between a few trees, but right on the trail, were two big bears.  At first i tried to convince myself they were just someone’s massive dogs, and not bears, because that might be dangerous.  Then my second instinct was, quick get my camera out because i know no one will believe me without evidence.  I fumbled through a few settings and started recording, and then realized, i better deal with this situation before they get curious about how I taste.  I started calling out to them and walked a big circle around them.  I didn’t want them to think i was stalking them so i kept yelling at them until i got back to the trail a few yards further down.  They just watched me as I walked around them and then they kind of meandered away, happy to let me go my way.  I was shook by the encounter, but honestly it was quite tame.  I didn’t threaten them and they didn’t threaten me.  If they would have charged me, i probably would have soiled my pants and tried to run away.  Thank goodness that didn’t happen and they were pleased to just let me be, as i was to let them be.  I’ll post the video in the photo’s.
    
    </div>
  </div>



<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">May 31,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
   So the fun never ends on the PCT.  The day after Whitney you have to go over Forester Pass which is the highest point on the PCT at 13,150ft.  And it is notorious for the “Death Shute” at the very top where the snow covers the trail and you have to traverse, just like Whitney.  The trail up to Forester was an uphill slope for like 9 miles.  I kept looking at the mountains in front of me thinking where the hell was the pass?  There’s just no way to pass over the cliffs of the mountains.  Unfortunately i opted for beauty sleep again rather than leaving early and by 10:30 realized i may be too late to get across the snow if it’s too melted, or if i posthole on the approach.  Luckily it was again cold as heck today and the snow stayed firm.  As i got closer to the mountains i finally saw the switchbacks up the slope, and thought “No way”.  There looks like a nice pass a few mountains to the right, but John Muir chose the gnarliest little gap between mountains as the way to go.  I only managed about a mile an hour on the switchbacks as the elevation absolutely destroyed my lungs and heartrate.  I made it to the dangerous shute of death at about 11:45 and again was all alone.  All the smart folks left at like 2am to get nice firm snow and ice across the shute.  To do this traverse for some reason the guys who blazed the trail make you climb straight up ice for about 6 feet.  You absolutely can’t do this without microspikes, and good luck without an ice axe.  To climb the first steps i slammed my ice axe into the mountain and was so thrilled when it held firm into the ice.  I pulled myself up into the footsteps and just focused one by one to get across.  It was a little scarier than Whitney the day before because I knew, no one was coming behind me.  If I fell it would be at least 18 hours before anyone else showed up.  Once you get across the Chute theres a few more little switchbacks and then you have to use your axe again to pull yourself over the Cornice at the top.  I had so much anxiety over both Whitney and Forrester after the snow storm that when i made it to the Forester Pass sign i yelled as loud as I could for about 2 minutes.    There was no one to hear my victory screams, but I tried to make sure everyone on earth knew I had overcome the two biggest obstacles on the PCT in horrible conditions.  As scary as the climb up Forester is, the backside is like nothing.  I knew even if i postholed all afternoon i could still get down, but there was a 500 foot “Glacade” where you basically sit down and slide down the mountain.  The slope was so gradual that you just coast down to easy breathing.  I then just kinda walked straight down the mountain through the snow half skiing and half stepping in my trailrunners and microspikes. When you pass over Forester you are in the “Kings Canyon” and it is absolutely beautiful.  I think it’s more beautiful than Yosemite or the Grand Canyon.  The afternoon descent was so pleasant the forest was so beautiful and it was sunny and warm.  The “Kings” - all the mountains around you are stunning peaks - and the snow just makes them more beautiful.  You drop to 10,000 feet in just about an hour and then have these massive 3000 foot peaks all around you.   John Muir knew what he was doing when he made this trail, and I feel like my timing with the snow and summer approaching are perfect.  Usually this place is infested with mosquitoes, but i’m early enough that they aren’t really around yet.  Sometimes if you suffer through a crappy snowstorm you get rewarded with absolute beauty on the other side.  Today is another day I’ll never forget, for how difficult the climb was, the danger of the traverse, and the overwhelming beauty of Kings Canyon and the John Muir trail on the other side.
    
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">May 30,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    What an absolutely epic 2 days.  I’m posting two updates so go down and read May 28th update first.  After 2 horrible snowy cold miserable days, i have been rewarded with 2 of the most epic days in my life.  Filled with moments i’ll never forget and an appreciation for all the small things in life like the beauty of nature, being warm, being able to dry my gear out, and knowing i have all the things i need to have the adventure of my lifetime.  The day after the 28th, i woke to 6 inches of fresh powder, and was literally buried in my tent.  I waited until 6am to start getting ready so the sun would come up and start to warm me up.  Fortunately there was no wind and the clouds were gone and the sun came up.  I was the first out of camp so i had to find the trail for the first few hours, walking through the fresh snow in my trailrunners.  There was a little dent where the PCT trail was compared to the rest of the forest and if you kind of paid attention you could follow the trail without too much trouble stepping through the powder.  Mother Nature was kind because i got to dry all my stuff out at a break in the morning.  If it started snowing again and I had to lay down in wet gear at low temps, i would be in serious trouble.  I honestly think if there was a third day of snow I’d have suffered hypothermia.  Wet gear doesn’t warm youbthexway dry gear does…I hiked through beautiful pine and sequoia forests to Crabtree Meadow at the base of Mt Whitney with the goal of standing on top the next day.  My dreams were immediately dashed when i came across 3 hikers just leaving Crabtree who said the fresh snow made the path impossible.  8 different groups tried and gave up that day because the slope was too steep and there was no trail…you would have to kick it into the snow on the mountain as you went.  Luckily for me there was a complete badass going up at midnight the next day.  He was a Swedish dude who barely spoke english but said he would kick the trail into the mountain, and was hell bent on standing on Whitney.  I wanted to stand on top as well but i need a little more beauty sleep and i mean why can’t the trail be kicked into the mountain in daylight?  The Swedish guy said the snow would be too soft by then, and said he’s leaving at midnight and would watch the sun rise on Whitney the next morning.  I thought, well, i’ll leave at like 5:30 and if he fails bring my ice axe and microspikes and try it as well.  I woke up and left as daylight was coming over the Valley at 5:45, and headed towards Whitney, thinking i’ve fallen while skiing black diamond ski slopes why should this be any different if i fall down while traversing the mountain.  After 3 hours i finally got to the “switchbacks” portion and got to the first crossing.  It was incredibly steep and incredibly high.  If you fell, you were going to be sliding down the mountain for quite a ways, and there were nothing but granite boulders to cushion your fall at the bottom.  The Swedish dude lived up to his promise and laid the footsteps across the mountain.  I’m honestly not sure I could have done what he did, kicking steps into the snow at such a steep angle.  I’d like to think i have his same courage but I may have turned back as well, knowing each step forward onto fresh snow may not hold.  I am so thankful he did the hard work because i may not have been able too honestly.  There were 6 different sections where this needed to be done and each section was higher up the mountain at a steeper angle.  The last section was the longest, probably 100 yards long and you had to climb up as you went.  Even just following in his footsteps took a lot of courage because if when i stepped in his footstep it could still easily give way and down i’d go.  Plus it was 4 hours later and warmer, so the snow was much softer now.  Oh yeah, you also have to do this nonsense at about 13,000 feet of elevation, where you can barely breathe and each step is a workout in itself.  I just focused on each step and sunk my ice axe into the snow hoping if my step gave way the axe would hold me.  Luckily each step held perfectly and the snow stayed firm and sticky under my feet.  After about 2 hours of the switchbacks I made it to the ridge up top - only 2 more miles to go.  At least there was a solid trail that was flat, but apparently no one made it up from the “portal” side the day before either, because there were only a few tracks of footprints and you were basically walking on fresh snow.  In a few days all this snow will melt and Whitney will just be a big test of your willpower.  Doing it in the snow added a real sense of danger, and made each step that much harder.  The final 500 feet up the backslope of Whitney is usually pretty mellow compared to the climb, but there was so much snow that you would posthole up to your thighs against granite rocks and tear your shins up as you stepped through the snow into the side of a buried rock.  There is a trail between the boulders but there was no way to find it withball the fresh snow.  Some guys told me to just rockhop the top part, and stay off the snow, as it would be easier.  Makes perfect sense, except you are at 14,000 feet of elevation and jumping across from granite boulder to granite boulder takes a ton of energy, and the rocks were not perfectly stable.  Once you’d jump on one it would shift and you’d end up stepping down into the snow.  I have about 15 new cuts in my shins from missing my jump, or from the boulder shifting as i landed on it.  The elevation kicked my butt and I was emotionally and physically exhausted when i reached the summit house.  I was all alone at the top (I passed the swedish dude and his buddies as they were headed down along with a few other groups that left earlier). Being up there all alone was a bit overwhelming, i was so proud, tired, and the view was absolutely incredible.  You could see mountaintops all around you, but they were all below you.  You could see the valleys on either side of the mountain and the granite looked so stark and sharp.  It was beautiful, and a moment i’ll never forget.  Doing it in the fresh snow made the beauty of nature really stand out, and gave the climb a real sense of adventure, oh and it made it cold as heck, and made my feet, hands and face numb.  The way down was so easy in comparison to the way up, each step down meant you could breathe easier.  It took me 5 hours to climb the 8 miles up, and only 3 to descend.  The “Swedish dude steps” still had to be maneuvered and the snow was now even softer, but they held again, and I made it down safe and sound.  
    
    </div>
  </div>

    <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">May 28,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
Tonight is the most difficult night on the PCT yet.  I’m at 11,000 feet in elevation and it’s been snowing since about 10:30 today.  The snow was just an inch or so on the ground because it was so warm until about 2:30.  After that I walked through 4 inches of snow the rest of the afternoon and my feet got wet and frozen.  I got to camp around 5pm and cleared a spot on the ground big enough for my tent to fit and quickly set it up before the snow filled it back in.  I climbed inside and zipped everything shut to change into my dry clothes.  By the time I got changed I was shivering uncontrollably because i was sitting in my tent on the cold ground, so I blew up my air mattress climbed on top and tucked my feet into my sleeping bag/quilt.  My feet felt like wood and I couldn’t tell if i was wiggling my toes so i just put everything dry on and covered up in my quilt.  It’s been about an hour now and I finally stopped shivering and I can feel my toes again.  Usually I’d go outside, boil water and make a dehydrated meal for dinner, but I don’t want to go back outside my tent and freeze up again, so it looks like candy, chips, trail mix and beef jerky for dinner…which isn’t so bad.  I’m not supposed to eat in my tent because it may attract bears, and I saw some bear prints in the snow a few hours ago, but I think i’m gonna chance it with the bears rather than face the harsh outside world.  My watch says it’s 15 degrees outside, so i’ll fight a bear rather than fight the cold tonight.  To get a drink of water I have to bring a water bottle into my quilt for about 30 minutes, which makes me freeze, but it melts the water enough to drink.  I can’t wait until I have to pee tonight, because i’ll have to get up and freeze and face the bears, the cold and the snow will leak into my tent getting my stuff all wet.  This is night 2 back to back sleeping in a snow storm, which makes things even worse but the weather app says tomorrow no more snow!  Yeay!!!  But it’s supposed to get super cold like a high of 15 degrees during the day - boo…all of the weather, hiking elevation and stuff sucks, but the worst part of my day is that my hiking partner, Dom had to bail out today.  He woke up last night and couldn’t breathe.  We were camping at 9000 feet and he felt like he was having a heartbattack or something.  We’re about to climb Whitney, 14,500ft  and Forester Pass, 13500 feet in the next 3 days, so if you can’t breathe at 9000 feet, it’s not gonna magically get better at 14,500, so he did the smart thing and left on a side trail to Lone Pine today.  We’re not sure what his condition is, so I may have hiked my last miles with Dom, or he may rejoin me later…TBD.  In the meantime I’m solo, but not alone.  Theres about 10 other hikers at this camp with me, and if I stop hiking for an hour someone will pass me, so theres plenty of folks around for the bears to chose from if they want to eat human food.  I’m hoping to stay warm tonight, get a good nights sleep, and collect myself mentally tomorrow.  A little sunshine should help change my mood, so please, Mother Nature, let it shine tomorrow and enough with the winter time after Memorial Day.  It’s unofficially summer now, so put winter away, please!  In two days I’m supposed to climb Whitney - the harsh conditions are preparing me for the challenge.  It’s sure to be physically exhausting but I just hope it’s not dangerous with all the snow and ice.  If it gets too harsh, being solo, I’ll have to not climb it, but I’m hoping the weather and conditions on the mountain cooperate!  I have no internet so i can’t post this until I get back to town, by then you’ll know if I summited Whitney or not, unless of course I die or something.
    
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-date">May 15,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text"> 
Yesterday was an absolute whirlwind.  I woke up at 6am in a beautiful pine forest, packed up my gear and hiked 6 short miles into Kennedy Meadows South at the foothills of the Sierra’s.  We got “clapped in” as we arrived and recognized about 20 other hikers as we approached the deck of the General Store - it was amazing to have our fellow hikers cheer us into the store and help us celebrate the true end to the southern desert at mile 704 of the PCT.  About 2 hours later, my buddy Dom’s wife picked us up from there and drove us all the way back to the Bay Area, and tonight I’m going to sleep back in civilization.  It’s immediate culture shock where water is pretty much meaningless and potable without filtering it, and candy tastes horribly sweet again.  All my new hiker friends are hundreds of miles away and will be long gone by the time I get back to the trail.  I dreaded each day on the trail and the long slog of hiking but now it’s not even 24 hours since I stopped hiking and I already miss it.  It’s so stupid - I was looking forward to this break in the hike so much, and now I can’t wait to get back to the trail…each day hiking wasn’t even that fun, it was more pain than pleasure, but I can’t wait to finish the PCT, and I hate myself for not cherishing each second in nature while I was out there.  The person that hiked those 700 miles feels like a very different person than who I am right now…I’m just glad the journey isn’t over yet.
      </div>
    </div>

<div class="update-date">May 10,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text">
I am certain there is a valid reason to live in Ridgecrest, California, but i cannot figure it out.  This town is about 30 miles from the PCT (mile 650), after passing through an even smaller town called Inyokern.  Inyokern’s town slogan was painted on a mural on the side of one of the 4 buildings in that town.  The slogan is “Inyokern - it’s about 100 miles from everywhere” - i’m not even making that up.  Ridgecrest does have a Walmart though, which was nicely run and clean inside.  So we’re in the middle of the Mojave desert,  on the Eastern slope of the Sierra’s.  It’s over 100 degree’s outside and if water touches the ground it dries almost instantly.  The closest substantial body of water is the Pacific Ocean which is over 130 miles away, so of course this is the location where the US Navy decided to put a base….which is the only actual reason to live in this town.  In some PCT towns you may get one poorly run hotel.  Here in Ridgecrest, which isn’t really a PCT town, there are like 15-20 hotels.  I get that theres a Navy Base, but we had our pick of whatever hotel chain we wanted - there are way too many hotels for a town this size, and I’m gonna spend some serious time figuring out what the hell is going on here that they need so many hotels.  You could host a pretty big convention here with this many hotels. to get here we had to hitch a ride from a reluctant driver named Juan.  He only picked us up because he dropped a girl off at the PCT, and kind of felt obligated to help us out since he already stopped.  By the time he showed up there were 4 of us standing on the side of highway 178 trying to hitch a ride, we were standing there for over an hour and no one was stopping because we’re literally in the middle of nowhere.  Juan said he could only take 2 of us, so of course all 4 of us piled in and put our packs on our laps.  We paid him $40 for his efforts, and every bump we hit bottomed out his wheels into his wheel wells on his 2003 Toyota Corolla.  He gave us a tour of Ridgecrest, and told us stay away from the Navy base, because they take people in there and don’t let them out…there’s a Denny’s, one other “Family restaurant”, some fast food chains, a Walmart and then the 20 hotels…We asked the desk clerk at the Best Western we’re staying at what there is to do in this town, and she said, “There ain’t nothing to do in Ridgecrest, and there never will be”
      </div>
      
<div class="update-date">May 9,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text">

       The trail changes quickly.  We were just walking through a beautiful pine forest with granite boulders on a slow sloping hill and the trail was amazing.  It was what I dreamt it would be before I hiked this trail, then next thing you know we rounded a corner and boom all the pine trees were gone and it was barren desert except for the occasional patch of Joshua trees.  And it suddenly got hot and dry and we were back in the desert again?  This section were on is some of the most remote in California.  We left Tehachapi 3 days ago and haven’t had a bar of cell service since.  We’re walking along the Eastern slope of the Sierra’s and theres one section where if some dude named Larry didn’t drop 100x 5 gallon water jugs, we’d all be dead.  You would have to carry about 45 miles of water, which would be almost impossible because it would be at least 3 days of water.  Thank god for Larry and his kindness, and knowledge that without him there’d be tons of dead hikers.  Even with Larry, we’re still doing 20 mile water carries which means you need water for that day, for camping that night, and to get to the next water the next day.  These are long heavy carries.  I usually carry 5-6 Liters which is about 12 extra pounds, plus the 5 days of food for this section, which means a 35-40 pound pack - urgh! I’ve run out of water about 3 miles from the next cache, and when we finally got there i couldn’t talk my mouth was so dry.  I know there are folks that are suffering with major dehydration over this section, it’s truly dangerous.  
Today i got my first glimpse of Mt Whitney way in the distance.  As you look at the first sights of the Sierra’s from here you can tell those mountains are very different from the ranges we’ve been walking through.  They are way higher, and way steeper, and the climbs look brutal!  Of course as soon as we saw Whitney and the Sierra’s the trail turned 180 degrees and we started walking away from them?!?!?Who the hell made this trail and what the hell were they thinking?  It is absolute torture the way this trail just goes around another mountain just for the sake of wasting more time and effort.
I’m super excited for the Sierra section.  In my mind it’s the heart of this trail, and it’ll be super difficult, super cold, and require some new skills like walking on ice, using ice axe’s and crossing rivers.  First we’re taking the week off for Memorial Day, then we’ll keep hiking on May 26th.  I still have about 80 miles to get to Kennedy Meadows South, through this barren dry stretch, though!  I promise I’ll be cursing the trail makers the entire way for the meandering ups and downs and back and forth.  We joke with one another that if you just want to get from Mexico to Canada go walk highway 5, and you’ll be done in 2 months.  It’s called the Pacific Crest Trail, not the Pacific Valley trail…
      
      </div>
<div class="update-date">May 5,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text">

      
      
We left Hikertown at 2:30 am 2 days ago and hiked the "Aquaduct section", which goes through the Mojave desert, at night to avoid the hottest point in the day.  The strategy worked perfectly, as we made it 17 miles to the comfort of the Cottonwood bridge just as the sun was cranking up at 10am.  We slept there through the afternoon and had a surprise visit from "Sprinter" a legendary trail angel who gives hikers Gatorade and Ice Cream out of his Sprinter Van.  We then hiked another 10 miles north into the mountains where temps are way cooler than the mojave.  
We made it to Tehachapi at mile 566 last night, and then got a ride into Tehachapi from a trail angel. Mile 566 is a big deal because it ends the "desert section" on the Far Out app and we start the "Sierra Section", but all PCT hikers count up to Kennedy Meadows as the Desert Section which is another 150 miles away.  We'll have some big water carries, and it's a super dry patch ahead which is why we all count it as the desert still.  
We've been getting so lucky with our zero days in town.  The bad weather always seems to come when we have a zero day planned, saving us from hiking in rain/snow etc.  Our clothes and gear are staying dry while it's miserable outside again today.  hiking while freezing cold and wet is bad, and knowing you have to set up in a wet tent is even more miserable.  I'm super glad we're dodging this latest "storm" again.
our plan is to hike to Kennedy Meadows over then next 10 days, and then we'll be taking a week off for the Memorial Day weekend, and resuming hiking on May 27th to go into the Sierra's.  
      
      </div>
      
<div class="update-date">May 4,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text">
So every day we wake up(unless it’s one of our zero days in town) and then we hike from 6:45 am to about 9am - we take a 30 minute break - then hike another 2-3 hours - take an hour break and hike 2 more hours take a 30 minute break and hike another 2 hours.  We can go between 20 and 24 miles this way depending on terrain.  The terrain has been an absolute beast though.  We’re averaging 4000 feet of elevation each day which makes each day some of the toughest hiking we’ve done. Wake up and do it again tomorrow.  It’s a lot more physical than I expected.  I knew it would be tough but day after day wears you down a bit mentally and physically with blisters, sore feet, aching muscles, not to mention the poison oak, you’ll enevitablly rub against and everything in the desert sections wants to stab you.  Plants have no give there at all and will just cut you for brushing against them.  Now we get to deal with a new threat too.  Something called the “Poodle Dog Bush”. Apparently it’s infested the trail this year and it’s like poison oak on steroids.  It causes a painful rash that lasts a few days.  If you touch it, you’ll remember this plant and want to destroy them all.  Like just kill all plants in case any of them is this poodle dog bush, which by the way i have no idea what it looks like.
Back to the hiking schedule - since we’re basically exercising all day, I have hit a wall quite a few times where my body couldn’t keep moving forward.  I had to take a break.  At first it was just sore muscles and low energy.  After a few weeks though your muscles adapt and you can handle it…the low energy thing though thats another problem that required a very specific solution.  As a health conscious person i knew i needed more food, so i tried things like nuts and energy bars and meat sticks etc.  i still eat those things, but they don’t stop you from hitting the wall the way  very specialized hiker meals do.  Specifically if you want to hike big miles you must have candy and lots of it.  Snickers bars are better than Clif bars, and if it’s a hot afternoon you better have Gummy bears.  This has all been scientifically tested by numerous hikers, and for some reason very refined processed sugars will get you where you want to go way better than healthy food.  I eat so much chocolate and gummy snacks that my teeth will probably rot out of my head, and i’ll need to stop this bad habit once I’m off the trail, but for now I’m absolutely loading up on all the candy I can eat!  It’s not just me either - i saw a dude resupply-ing yesterday and he was going three days to his next destination- he had 24 snickers bars, 3 M&M’s and a bag of Doritos.  I looked at him in shame and asked him if he was stupid or something.  Everyone knows you’ll need at least 32 Snickers to cover that much ground.  He was lucky i was there to catch his error!
      
      </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-date">May 2,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text">
We have entered the bizarro world of Hikertown.  this place was built 20 years ago as a stop over for PCT Hikers, because the trail runs right by it.  We've been to a few of these hiker "havens".  if you are looking for a 4 star hotelier, this ain't it.  If you need a 1 star hotel experience as a minimum, sorry you will be sorely disappointed.  if you want an operational public toilet that may or may not have Toilet Paper and a hose that can run hot water and operate as a shower, you're gonna love this place.  it's run by a guy named Bob, who didn't even charge us to camp here, so price is perfect.  Bob however, is a little senile, and will talk your ear off given the chance, but a really good person.  He did have the phone number for another crazy guy named Richard, who preferred to be called Dick, who could drive us to a building where they sell hikers "resupply" - basically beef jerky and ramen and candy bars.  it was 5 miles down the highway, and then Dick was gone forever so I had to bribe the nice cashier to drive us the 5 miles back.  She was a nice local who told us all about the meth addicts around here, and how she cleaned herself up, and is now living in a trailer on the Hikertown property. Sooo....it wasn't even out of her way to drive us back after her shift at the store, she only agreed to drive us when i paid her $20.  I swear you could make a great documentary sbout all the people living out here.  I will now lay down in a yard with fake building fronts that look like a sheriffs office, a saloon, a doctors office etc.  people used to sleep in the little buildings but they were infested with bed bugs, so laying in the yard is better, except you kind of have to keep the chickens and dog that run around the yard away from your food.  Thats how low the standards are for a PCT hiker - come join us, we're pretty much homeless people - except we think we're better.
      
      </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-date">Apr 29,2026<div>
    <div class="update-text">
Whoever made the PCT Desert section is now my most hated enemy.  For one thing, theres not a lot of desert in the desert section.  I’ve been close to hypothermia so many times and yes I have been hot but man have I been cold.  We started climbing Mt Baden Powell on 4/26 and we knew it had snowed the day before but the trusty weather app said no more snow and rain for the rest of 4/26 or 4/27.  Just a few clouds…no big deal…oh and nights might be in the 30’s so a bit chilly.  As we climbed up Baden Powell it becamevapparent that cloudy was the optimal word - everything was in the clouds.  Visibility was maybe 3 feet for most of the day until we broke through the clouds near the top of the mountain.  When i saw it would snow the night before I assumed it would be just like climbing San Jacinto, and our feet would get a little wet, but no need for the Microspikes we shipped home in Idylwild.  Man was I wrong.  The trail up was fine-ish, and we summitted by 10am.  The rest of the day was a nightmare.  Because we were the first PCT’ers on the mountain there were no tracks down the other side…it was all fresh snow, and about 4 inches deep.  We had to blaze the trail using the GPS on the map pretty much every 30 seconds trying to guess where the masochists who made this trail intended us to go.  Of Course summitting Baden Powell was just an appetizer for all the sights they intended us to see the rest of the day walking along ridgelines and summitting the minor mountaintops along the ridge.  It would have been great in clear skies and no snow, but we just wanted to get off the mountain in our trail runners, hiking poles and  35 pound packs.  There were about 10 times where the “trail” was along a totally exposed slope and when our feet gave way, we almost slid down the mountain.  Both my buddy Dom and I realized we were idiots to not have microspikes in this condition and probably also an ice ax, but we had come to far and tirning around would be just as dangerous.  We eventually made it past the steep ridges and down to mountain, and were moving as fast as possible to get below the snow level.  By 5pm we made it to clear ground, but we were still in the middle of a cloud and it was still just above freezing.  After 20 miles we called it a day next to a road and just set up our tents behind a barrier on highway 2.  30 minutes later 2 girls passed our campspot and let us know about 25 hikers all left Wrightwood after us.  Majority had no spikes or snow gear either, and they asked us why we kept trying to lead the trail down the mountain, when it clearly was supposed to go along the ridge?  They said one girl slipped following our tracks and slid about 50 yards down the mountain, lost one of her poles and took 30 minutes to climb back up to our “trail”….oops…lesson learned - just because there are tracks in front of you doesn’t mean that person knew what they were doing…Anyway, we camped in freezing temps in a cloud and all our gear got wet again.  Miserable night, to follow a miserable day.  I had all my clothes on at one point and somehow was still cold.  It turns out even though Baden Powell was only 9000 feet compared to 10000 on San Jacinto, Baden Powell kicked my butt much harder.  Oh yeah the next day we got frosted over again at night, so that looks like it’ll be a regular thing, i guess.  One day summer will come and i won’t wake up freezing at mignight and soaking wet. 
      
      </div>
  </div>

  
    <div class="update-date">Apr 24,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
We made it to Wrightwood at mile 369, and were able to hitchhike into town.  As someone who has never hitchhiked in my life it's a bit weird but I am blown away at the kindness of strangers on this trail.  We got a ride in Big Bear by a guy on his way to cancer treatment and today a young couple in their 20's picked us up.  People are so kind, and go out of their way to help others, it really is such a statement on humanity that someone see's another person in need, and helps when they can.  It restores my faith in us humans that we would rather help each other than hurt each other, given the chance.  One of my favorite things about doing this hike is fully unplugging from the political and social media mahem.  No one cares about that out here, everyone is so focused on how to get water, or where to get to the next town.  2 days ago, i was in a complete panic because we were camping in a little valley near a river after our 27 mile day.  We Cowboy camped, and the air got super moist.  I woke up freezing cold, and realized my sleeping quilt(sleeping bag) was totally wet from the dew.  in fact all my gear was soaking wet.  It was 1 am, I was exhausted and freezing cold. I luckily had a sleeping bag liner that I grabbed and used to add a layer inside my wet sleeping quilt. It worked to keep me warm so i could fall back asleep.  I then woke up at 4am again and it was below freezing because my quilt now had a layer of ice on it, rather than just being wet.  Miserable conditions, cold enough to fear about hypothermia, and yet we just gutted through it.  Later that day we dried our soaked gear in the hot sunlight, while we tried to find shade because we were worried about dehydration.  it's so wild that you can be colder than you've been in years, and then a few hours later hotter than you can remember.  I hate it and love it at the same time, and I'm just glad that somehow all of these insurmountable problems always just somehow work themselves out.
      
      </div>
  </div>
    
  
      <div class="update-card">

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 23,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
I'm currently sitting in the McDonalds (mile 342) at Camp Cajon off hwy 15 anout a day out of Wrightwood, where we'll take a zero day.  i haven't eaten McDonalds in many years, but man i was craving this food for 2 days.  Ever since leaving Big Bear, this trail has been - Pleasant.  The first day the trail was flat to downhill, no wind snd sbout 62 degrees, it was perfect hiking.  On Tuesday we hiked a nice canyon and ended up at a hot springs where i got in and soaked at the end of a 21 mile day.  Yesterday we did a record 27 miles all because the trail was so well maintained.  My blisters are healing up and my legs getting stronger so we're able to do big miles when the trail is easy.  This afternoon we'll  start climbing Mt Baden Powell which is about a 6000 foot climb to it's peak which is about 9000 feet tall.  but first we'll stop at Wrightwood tomorrow for a zaro day.  
    
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 18,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
   We made it into Big Bear today at mile 266, which it turns out is kind of a big milestone.  It takes most people 3 weeks to get here, and when you do you are about 10% of the way done with the trail.  Apparently about 60% of all "through-hikers" will have given up by this point, either because of injury or because it's so hard.  If you survive past this point you have a very good chance to make it the whole way.  Honestly, of the last 7 days of hiking, 5 of them have been the most brutal hikes I've done in my life.  We've ascended over 5000ft in 12 miles, we've descended over 8000 feet in about 14 miles, only to climb up 4000 feet the next day. Whoever made this trail has a sick sense of humor sometimes about climbing up steep ridges just to go down again into a parallel valley.  It's insanely hard backpacking, and camping above 5000 feet of elevation generally means you are in freezing temps when you go to sleep on the cold hard ground.  The hardest day yet was 2 days ago, when we had to hike up 5000 feet of elevation along "The Wash-out" section, where the trail was obliterated by flooding 3 years ago.  theres now a 100 meter wide river bed with a 6 foot wide river snaking across the debri feild.  it's just wide rnough that you can't jump it, so you have to walk through it getting your feet wet.  the rest of the time you walk on sand and shin high granite rocks that are totally unstable.  we could only go less than 2 miles an hour in a 12 mile slog, and i think we caught noro virus on top of it all.  At the end of the day we had to climb 1000 more feet and slept at 8600 feet elevation where our water froze overnight. I'm pumped we made it to Big Bear and town food and a zero day tommorrow to hopefully get rid of the feeling of food poisoning.
    
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 15,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    So we summited Mt San Jacinto, which is not actually on the PCT, but it's a 5 mile detour that is well worth the effort, and all hardcore PCT'ers do, so of course we had to do it.  We hiked through 4 inches of snow that fell the night before, for the entire day.  feet were soaked and cold, and the elevation was brutal.  It felt like our hardest day yet, but every day seems to feel like that.  tonight we're staying at a trail angels house in Bannon right off highway 10, because you can't camp within 10 miles of the highway, and we were ruined from a 8000 foot descent over the last few days.  yesterday we were freezing in the snow and today we were burning in the sun.  i swear it's s different trail every day.
    
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 12,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    I'm writing this from the comfort of the Silver Pines Lodge in Idylwild about 5 miles off the PCT, which we had to walk as well...urgh.  it was worth it though because it's pouring rain outside right now and last night was close to 32 degrees, so i would be wet and cold and miserable if we didn't stay here.  Today we walked along a high ridgeline about 8000 feet in elevation.  on one side was Palm Springs which was the non windy side protected by the mountains.  on the other was Idylwild with winds over 35mph trying to push us off the mountain.  it was intense hiking but still beautiful.  i just wish i wasn't completely exhausted from climbing 4000 feet in elevation so i could really enjoy it.  we're at mile 179 now and will take a day off tommorrow to heal up and rest for summitting mt San Jacinto on Tuesday!
    
    </div>
  </div>

    <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 10,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    We just got to mile 151 today.  We heard about a guy who died yesterday on the stretch we just finished.  It was a brutal stretch of desert with about 2000 foot of elevation gain and very dry and hot with a 15 mile water carry, so it's not surprising.  i had to reach deep today because we did 22 miles yesterday and 20 miles today and just hit a bit of a wall.  I'll recover overnight but some days are just harder than others. In my pictures the mountains look so cute and small, but they don't do justice to the views we have.  Every day is amazing scenery and it changes all the time.  I've seen rattlesnakes, rabbits, lizards, mice, so many cool and interesting bugs. It's been insanely challenging and super rewarding.
    
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 8,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    Hard to believe that today is one week on the PCT.  We did 15 miles today which felt way easier than last week.  My feet are getting less sore each day and legs are feeling stronger each day.  We're camping at mile 109, where we finished at about 2pm.  if we had rested a few hours we could have easily gone another 5 miles, but were getting breakfast burrito's here tomorrow morning before heading out on a 4 day section to Idlewild. Water gets harder in this next stretch, and we have to average 18 miles to pull it off.  Challenging but doable.
    
    </div>
  </div>

<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 7,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    We left Julian at 7am this morning after doing 0 miles yesterday and resting our blisters and feet.  We ate delicious town food yesterday, and theres a restaurant called Moms that gives PCT hikers a free slice of pie with Ice Cream. Hiked 17 miles today to mile 94, which sets us up for crossing 100 tomorrow, and making it to Warner Springs where a girl there makes homemade Burrito's for hikers if you order ahead. It was only 78 degrees today, but we're in the high desert, and man it felt like 90 degrees.  It was hot and dry.  Every day the PCT looks different from the last.  beautiful views of the valleys below, we're over 5000 feet in elevation most of the time.
    
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 5,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    Made it to Julian (mile 77) where i have wifi and should be able to update photos finally.  had a big day yesterday - hiked 20 miles and then Cowboy camped under the stars.  Hiked 12 today and got a ride to Julian from a trail angel.  The scenery is Amazing we got a view of the Mojave desert shortly after leaving Mt Laguna on Friday.  i'm hoping the rest will allow my blisters to heal and shoulders to loosen up a bit before the next stretch!
    
    </div>
  </div>
  
<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Apr 3,2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    Couldn't ask for a better start.  Did 15 miles to Hauser Creek day 1, 17 miles to Franks crossing day 2, and i'm writing this from Mt Laguna at about mile 42.  we've bedn starting early at 7, and breaking the day into 5 mile stretches which takes us about 2 hours.  weather is cool, the trail is beautiful, and been meeting really cool people.  brought way too much food as theres food every 2 days off trail.  i'm getting a burger at Laguna as i write this which means i'll have extra food in my bag when we get to Julian.
    </div>
  </div>
  
<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Mar 31, 2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
    Stayed at Camp Lockett about 1/2 a mile from the border.  Met a bunch of hikers starting tommorrow and got great advice from some old timers who have done this trail a few times and were here to share experiences.  excited for tommorrow and i hope i don't get injured early!!!
    </div>
  </div>


<div class="update-card">
    <div class="update-date">Mar 20, 2026</div>
    <div class="update-text">
      Just getting this simple tracker site up and running.  This simple tracker will let friends and family track my progress on the trail.  It's meant to be a simple site that pulls photos and text data that I can update whernever I have cell connection.  There's no paid service to run this and it's anonymous which I prefer.  It's not a social media site, and theres no database to query, likes etc.  I just update text and photo's and it pulls location from my friends watch/app.  I'll be hiking with him so the maps should be reliable for where I'm at.  The next update will be on April 6th when I get back into cell connection again.
    </div>
  </div>


  <div class="update-note">(Older updates at the bottom)</div>

</div>
